import java.util.Scanner;

public class SwitchStatementExample {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);

        System.out.println("Select a fruit:");
        System.out.println("1. Apple");
        System.out.println("2. Orange");
        System.out.println("3. Banana");
        System.out.println("4. Mango");

        int choice = scanner.nextInt();

        switch (choice) {
            case 1:
                System.out.println("You selected Apple.");
                break;
            case 2:
                System.out.println("You selected Orange.");
                break;
            case 3:
                System.out.println("You selected Banana.");
                break;
            case 4:
                System.out.println("You selected Mango.");
                break;
            default:
                System.out.println("Invalid choice.");
                break;
        }
    }
}



In this program, we prompt the user to select a fruit from a list and display a corresponding message based on their choice. Here's how the program works:

We create a Scanner object to read input from the user.

We display the list of fruits using System.out.println().

We read the user's choice using scanner.nextInt() and store it in the choice variable.

We use a switch statement to check the value of choice and execute the corresponding block of code:

If choice is equal to 1, it executes the code block under case 1 and prints "You selected Apple."
If choice is equal to 2, it executes the code block under case 2 and prints "You selected Orange."
If choice is equal to 3, it executes the code block under case 3 and prints "You selected Banana."
If choice is equal to 4, it executes the code block under case 4 and prints "You selected Mango."
If choice does not match any of the above cases, it executes the code block under default and prints "Invalid choice."
After executing the appropriate code block, the program exits the switch statement.

When you run this program, it will prompt you to select a fruit by entering a number. Based on your choice, it will display the corresponding message.

For example, if you enter 2, the output will be:

You selected Orange.

If you enter 5, the output will be:

Invalid choice.

This program demonstrates how the switch statement can be used to select a code block based on the value of a variable. In this case, it allows the user to select a fruit and displays a message based on their choice.

